Streaming lake ingestion private preview user's guide (#4004)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/datahub/streaming-lake-ingestion-bundle/faq.md

---
weight: 60
title: Frequently asked questions
layout: redirect
---

### How can I configure Streaming Lake Ingestion?

Streaming Lake Ingestion has no configuration options and stores all incoming realtime data into your lake. Depending on your use case, you can use a combination of options outside of Streaming Lake Ingestion to influence how data appears in your lake:

* Use Edge or Data Preparation to change data to more user friendly names, execute simple calculations or route data using processing modes.
* Use Digital Twin Manager to promote data points to asset level.
* Use Streaming Analytics to create new data in your desired output format.

> * Use Data Broker to transfer data between tenants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use data broker to transfer data between tenants.
```

Reviewer: We do not capitalize data broker. In this list, this might seem inconsistent, but to be consistent with the rest of the documentation, we should change the spelling here.

* Use a so-called "gold layer" to post-process IoT data together with your IT data into an joint and aggregated target format.

### Is DataHub Query (Dremio) required for Streaming Lake Ingestion?

> DataHub Query is optional if you want to post-process or query data using own tools. Note that views are currently only generate for engines compatible with Dremio and Spark SQL. While we designed the service to be as compliant as possible with common tool restrictions, we cannot guarantee compliance with all Iceberg tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DataHub Query is optional if you want to post-process or query data using your own tools. Note that views are currently only generated for engines compatible with Dremio and Spark SQL. While we designed the service to be as compliant as possible with common tool restrictions, we cannot guarantee compliance with all Iceberg tools.
```

### I see a device, alarm, measurement, event or operation in the operational store but not in the lake.

Only changes after subscription to Streaming Lake Ingestion are visible in the lake. If you have recently subscribed and the data was not changed since then, it will not be transferred to the lake.

> If the data was changed and it is not visible, check the "Alarms" overview page in the Cockpit application for warnings. You may have breached a limit. In this case, data breaching the limit is insert into the `trash` table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the data was changed and it is not visible, check the **Alarms** page in the Cockpit application for warnings. You may have breached a limit. In this case, data that breaches the limit is inserted into the `trash` table.
```
